locusts in the autumn season give birth to clusters of eggs, by lowering the tube of the prickle to the earth. the eggs last for the winter, but in the ensuing year at the end of spring send out small insects, that are blackish and have no legs, and crawl with their wing-feathers. consequently spring rains kill the eggs, whereas in a dry spring there are larger broods. others record that they have two breeding seasons and two seasons when they die off — bearing at the rise of the pleiades and then dying at the rise of the dog-star, others being born in their place; some say that this second brood is born at the setting of arcturus. it is certain that the mothers die when they have given birth to a brood, a maggot immediately forming inside them in the region of the throat that chokes them. the males die at the same time. and although dying for such a trifling reason a single locust when it likes can kill a snake by gripping its throat with its teeth. they are born only in places with chinks in them. there are said to be locusts in india three feet long, with legs and thighs that when they have been dried can be used as saws. they also have another way of dying: they are carried away in swarms by the wind and fall into the sea or a marsh. this happens purely by accident and not, as was believed by ancient writers, owing to their wings being drenched by the dampness of night. the same people indeed have also stated that they do not fly by night because of the cold — not being aware that they cross even wide seas, actually, which is most surprising, enduring several days' continuous hunger, to remedy which they know how to seek fodder abroad. this plague is interpreted as a sign of the wrath of the gods; for they are seen of exceptional size, and also they fly with such a noise of wings that they are believed to be birds, and they obscure the sun, making the nations gaze upward in anxiety lest they should settle all over their lands. in fact their strength does not fail, and as though it were not enough to have crossed the seas, they pass over immense tracts of land and cover them with a cloud disastrous for the crops, scorching up many things with their touch and gnawing away everything with their bite, even the doors of the houses as well. 