balsamum disdains to grow elsewhere, and a citron grown in assyria will not bear elsewhere; and likewise the palm also will not grow everywhere or, even if it does grow, bear fruit, or else even when it has made a promise and a show of bearing, refuses to mature the fruit, seeming to have given birth to it against its will. the cinnamon shrub has not the strength to travel to the neighbourhood of syria. the delicate perfumes of amomum and nard cannot endure to travel out of india and be conveyed by sea even as far as arabia — an attempt to import them was made by king seleucus. what is most surprising is that although the trees themselves can usually be persuaded to live and to bear transplantation, and occasionally even the soil will grant the request to nourish foreigners and give food to immigrants, the climate is absolutely unrelenting. the pepper-tree will live in italy, and the casia-plant even in a northern region, and the incense-tree has been known to live in lydia, but where are we to get the sunshine that sucks all the juice out of these plants or ripens the drops of essence that they shed? it is nearly as surprising that nature may alter in the same localities and yet retain a hundred percent of her vigour. she had bestowed the cedar on the regions of torrid heat, but it in the mountains of lycia and phrygia. she had made cold unfriendly to but no tree is more frequent on mount olympus. in the city of panticapaeum in the neighbourhood of the cimmerian bosphorus, king mithridates and the rest of the natives had toiled in every way to have the laurel and the myrtle, at all events for ritual purposes, but they did not succeed, although trees belonging to a mild climate abound there, pomegranates and figs, as well as apples and pears that win the highest praise. in the same region nature has not produced the trees that belong to cold climates — pine, fir and pitch-pine. and what is the point of our going abroad to the black sea? in the actual neighbourhood of rome chestnuts and cherries only grow with reluctance, and the peach-tree round tusculum, and almonds are laboriously grown from graft, although tarracina teems with whole woods of them. 