mago also tells us to plant almonds between the rising of arcturus and the shortest day, and not to plant all kinds of pears at the same time, as they do not blossom at the same time either; he says that those with oblong or round fruit should be planted between the setting of the pleiades and the shortest day, but the remaining kinds in midwinter after the setting of the arrow, with an eastern or northerly aspect; and a laurel between the setting of the eagle and the setting of the arrow. for the rule as to the time for planting and that for grafting are connected: the authorities have decided that for the greater part grafting should be done in spring and autumn, but there is also another suitable season, about the rising of the dog-star, known to fewer people because it is understood not to be equally advantageous for all localities, but as we are enquiring into the proper method not for a particular region but for the whole of nature we must not omit it. in the district of cyrene they plant when the yearly winds are blowing, as they also do in greece, and particularly the olive in laconia. the island of cos also plants vines at that season, but the rest of the farmers in greece, though they do not hesitate to inoculate and to graft trees at that season, do not plant trees then. and the natural qualities of the localities carry very great weight in this matter; for in egypt they plant in every month, and so in every country that has a summer rainfall, but in india and ethiopia trees are necessarily planted later, in autumn. consequently there are three regular periods for germination, spring and the rise of the dog-star and that of arcturus. for in fact not only do animals possess a strong appetite for copulation, but the earth and all vegetable growths have a much greater desire, the indulgence of which at the proper season is of the greatest importance for conception, and peculiarly so in the case of grafts, as both graft and stock share a mutual eagerness to unite. those who approve of spring for grafting begin it immediately after the equinox, stating that the buds are just coming out, which facilitates the joining of the barks; but those who prefer autumn begin at the rising of arcturus, because the grafts at once so to speak take root and are prepared when they reach springtime, and do not have their strength taken away immediately by budding. some kinds of trees however have a fixed time of year everywhere, for instance cherries and almonds, which have to be planted or grafted about midwinter; but as to the greater number of trees the lie of the land will make the best decision, as cold and damp lands must be planted in spring, but dry and warm sites in autumn. the system general in italy at all events assigns the times for planting in the following manner: for a mulberry from february 13 to the spring equinox; for a pear the autumn, provided it is not less than a fortnight before the shortest day; for summer apples and quinces, and also sorbs and plums, from midwinter to february 13; for the greek carob and for peaches, right through autumn till midwinter; for the nuts, walnut and pine-cone and filbert and almond and chestnut, from march 1 to march 15; for the willow and broom about march 1. the broom is grown from seed in dry places and the willow from a slip in damp localities, as we have stated. 