all salt is artificial or native; each is formed in several ways, but there are two agencies, condensation or drying up of water. it is dried out of the tarentine lake by summer sun, when the whole pool turns into salt, although it is always shallow, never exceeding knee height, likewise in sicily from a lake, called cocanicus, and from another near gela. of these the edges only dry up; in phrygia, cappadocia, and at aspendus, the evaporation is wider, in fact right to the centre. there is yet another wonderful thing about it: the same amount is restored during the night as is taken away during the day. all salt from pools is fine powder, and not in blocks. another kind produced from sea water spontaneously is foam left on the edge of the shore and on rocks. all this is condensation from drift, and that found on rocks has the sharper taste. there are also three different kinds of native salt; for in bactra are two vast lakes, one facing the scythians, the other the arii, which exude salt, while at citium in cyprus and around memphis salt is taken out of a lake and then dried in the sun. but the surface too of rivers may condense into salt, the rest of the stream flowing as it were under ice, as near the caspian gates are what are called 'rivers of salt,' also around the mardi and the armenians. moreover, in bactria too the rivers ochus and oxus bring down scrapings of salt from nearby mountains. there are also lakes in africa, and that muddy ones, which carry salt. indeed hot springs too carry it, such as those at pagasae. so much for the different kinds of salt which come, as natural products, from waters. there are also mountains of natural salt, salt. such as oromenus in india, where it is cut out like blocks of stone from a quarry, and ever replaces itself, bringing greater revenues to the rajahs than those from gold and pearls. it is also dug out of the earth in cappadocia, being evidently formed by condensation of moisture. here indeed it is split into sheets like mica; the blocks are very heavy, nicknamed by the people 'grains.' at gerra, a town of arabia, the walls and houses are made of blocks of salt cemented with water. near pelusium too king ptolemy found salt when he was making a camp. this led afterwards to the discovery of salt by digging away the sand even in the rough tracts between egypt and arabia, as it is also found as far as the oracle of hammon through the parched deserts of africa, where at night it increases as the moon waxes. but the region of cyrenaica too is famous for hammoniac salt, itself so called because it is found under the sand. it is in colour like the alum called schiston, consisting of long opaque slabs, of an unpleasant flavour, but useful in medicine. that is most valued which is most transparent and splits into straight flakes. a remarkable feature is reported of it: of very little weight in its underground pits, when brought into the light of day it becomes incredibly heavy. the reason is obvious; the damp breath of the pits helps the workers by supporting the weight as does water. it is adulterated by the sicilian salt i have said comes from the lake cocanicus, as well as by cyprian salt, which is wonderfully like it. in hither spain too at egelesta salt is cut into almost transparent blocks; to this for some time past most physicians have given the first place among all kinds of salt. every region in which salt is found is barren, and nothing will grow there. to speak generally, these remarks about the various kinds of native salt are comprehensive. of artificial salt there are various kinds. the usual one, and the most plentiful, is made in salt pools by running into them sea water not without streams of fresh water, but rain helps very much, and above all much warm sunshine, without which it does not dry out. in africa around utica are formed heaps of salt like hills; when they have hardened under sun and moon, they are not melted by any moisture, and even iron cuts them with difficulty. it is also however made in crete without fresh water by letting the sea flow into the pools, and around egypt by the sea itself, which penetrates the soil, soaked as i believe it is, by the nile. salt is also made by pouring water from wells into salt pools. at babylon the first condensation solidifies into a liquid bitumen like oil, which is also used in lamps. when this is taken away, salt is underneath. in cappadocia too they bring water into salt pools from wells and a spring. in chaonia there is a spring, from which they boil water, and on cooling obtain a salt that is insipid and not white. in the provinces of gaul and germany they pour salt water on burning logs. 