in our classification of glass we include also 'obsian' ware, so named from its resemblance to the stone found by obsius in ethiopia. this stone is very dark in colour and sometimes translucent, but has a cloudier appearance than glass, so that when it is used for mirrors attached to walls it reflects shadows rather than images. gems are frequently made of it, and we have seen also the solid obsidian statues of augustus of revered memory, for the substance can yield pieces bulky enough for this purpose. augustus himself dedicated as a curiosity four elephants of obsidian in the temple of concord, while the emperor tiberius for his part restored to the cult of the sun-god at heliopolis an obsidian statue of menelaus which he found included in a legacy from one scius who had been governor of egypt. this statue proves that the origin of the stone, which is nowadays misrepresented because of its similarity to the glass, is of an earlier date. xenocrates records that obsidian is found in india, in italy within the territory of the samnites and in spain near the shores of the atlantic. there is also the artificial 'obsian' glass which is used as a material for tableware, this being produced by a colouring process, as is also the case with a completely red, opaque glass called in greek blood-red ware. there is, furthermore, opaque white glass and others that reproduce the appearance of fluorspar, blue sapphires or lapis lazuli, and, indeed, glass exists in any colour. there is no other material nowadays that is more pliable or more adaptable, even to painting. however, the most highly valued glass is colourless and transparent, as closely as possible resembling rock-crystal. but although for making drinking vessels the use of glass has indeed ousted metals such as gold and silver, it cannot bear heat unless cold fluid is first poured into it; and yet glass globes containing water become so hot when they face the sun that they can set clothes on fire. pieces of broken glass can, when heated to a moderate temperature, be stuck together, but that is all. they can never again be completely melted except into globules separate from each other, as happens in the making of the glass pebbles that are sometimes nicknamed 'eyeballs' and in some cases have a variety of colours arranged in several different patterns. glass, when boiled with sulphur, coalesces into the consistency of stone. 