here is an opportunity for exposing the falsehoods of the greeks. i only ask my readers to endure these with patience since it is important for mankind just to know that not all that the greeks have recounted deserves to be admired. the story how, when phaethon was struck by the thunderbolt, his sisters through their grief were transformed into poplar trees, and how every year by the banks of the river eridanus, which we call the po, they shed tears of amber, known to the greeks as 'electrum,' since they call the sun 'elector' or 'the shining one' — this story has been told by numerous poets, the first of whom, i believe, were aeschylus, philoxenus, euripides, nicander and satyrus. italy provides clear evidence that this story is false. more conscientious greek writers have mentioned islands in the adriatic named the electrides, to which, they say, amber is carried along by the po. it is quite certain, however, that no islands of this name ever existed there, and indeed that there are no islands so situated as to be within reach of anything carried downstream by the po. incidentally, aeschylus says that the eridanus is in iberia — that is, in spain — and that it is also called the rhone, while euripides and apollonius, for their part, assert that the rhone and the po meet on the coast of the adriatic. but such statements only make it easier to pardon their ignorance of amber when their ignorance of geography is so great. more cautious but equally misguided writers have described how on inaccessible rocks at the head of the adriatic there stand trees which at the rising of the dog-star shed this gum. theophrastus states that amber is dug up in liguria, while chares states that phaethon died in ethiopia on an island the greek name of which is the isle of ammon, and that here is his shrine and oracle, and here the source of amber. philemon declares that it is a mineral which is dug up in two regions of scythia, in one of which it is of a white, waxy colour and is called 'electrum,' while in the other it is tawny and known as 'snaliternicum.' demonstratus calls amber 'lyncurium,' or 'lynx-urine,' and alleges that it is formed of the urine of the wild beasts known as lynxes, the males producing the kind that is tawny and fiery in colour, and the females, that which is fainter and light in colour. according to him, others call it 'langurium' and state that the beasts, which live in italy, are 'languri.' zenothemis calls the same beasts 'langes' and assigns them a habitat on the banks of the po, while sudines writes that a tree which produces amber in liguria is called 'lynx.' metrodorus also holds the same opinion. sotacus believes that it flows from crags in britain called the electrides. pytheas speaks of an estuary of the ocean named metuonis and extending for 750 miles, the shores of which are inhabited by a german tribe, the guiones. from here it is a day's sail to the isle of abalus, to which, he states, amber is carried in spring by currents, being an excretion consisting of solidified brine. he adds that the inhabitants of the region use it as fuel instead of wood and sell it to the neighbouring teutones. his belief is shared by timaeus, who, however, calls the island basilia. philemon denies the suggestion that amber gives off a flame. nicias insists on explaining amber as moisture from the sun's rays, as follows: he maintains that as the sun sets in the west its rays fall more powerfully upon the earth and leave there a thick exudation, which is later cast ashore in germany by the tides of the ocean. he mentions that amber is formed similarly in egypt, where it is called 'sacal,' as well as in india, where the inhabitants find it more agreeable even than frankincense; and that in syria the women make whorls of it and call it 'harpax,' or 'the snatcher,' because it picks up leaves, straws and the fringes of garments. theochrestus holds that it is washed up on the capes of the pyrenees by the ocean in turmoil, a view which is shared by xenocrates, the most recent writer on the subject, who is still living. asarubas records that near the atlantic is a lake cephisis, called by the moors electrum, which, when thoroughly heated by the sun, produces from its mud amber that floats upon the surface of its waters. mnaseas speaks of a district in africa called sikyon and of a river crathis flowing into the ocean from a lake, on the shores of which live the birds known as meleager's daughters or penelope birds. here amber is formed in the manner described above. theomenes tells us that close to the greater syrtes is the garden of the hesperides and a pool called electrum, where there are poplar trees from the tops of which amber falls into the pool, and is gathered by the daughters of hesperus. ctesias states that in india there is a river hypobarus, a name which indicates that it is the bringer of all blessings. it flows from the north into the eastern ocean near a thickly wooded mountain, the trees of which produce amber. these trees are called 'psitthacorae,' a word which means 'luscious sweetness.' mithridates writes that off the coast of carmania there is an island called serita covered with a kind of cedar, from which amber flows down on to the rocks. xenocrates asserts that amber in italy is known not only as 'sucinum,' but also as 'thium'; and in scythia as 'sacrium,' for there too it is found. he states that others suppose that it is produced from mud in numidia. but all these authors are surpassed by the tragic poet sophocles, and this greatly surprises me seeing that his tragedy is so serious and, moreover, his personal reputation in general stands so high, thanks to his noble athenian lineage, his public achievements and his leadership of an army. sophocles tells us how amber is formed in the lands beyond india from the tears shed for meleager by the birds known as meleager's daughters. is it not amazing that he should have held this belief or have hoped to persuade others to accept it? can one imagine, one wonders, a mind so childish and naive as to believe in birds that weep every year or that shed such large tears or that once migrated from greece, where meleager died, to the indies to mourn for him? well then, are there not many other equally fabulous stories told by the poets? yes; but that anyone should seriously tell such a story regarding such a substance as this, a substance that every day of our lives is imported and floods the market and so confutes the liar, is a gross insult to man's intelligence and an insufferable abuse of our freedom to utter falsehoods. 