it is well established that amber is a product of islands in the northern ocean, that it is known to the germans as 'glaesum' and that, as a result, one of these islands, the native name of which is austeravia, was nicknamed by our troops glaesaria, or amber island, when caesar germanicus was conducting operations there with his naval squadrons. to resume, amber is formed of a liquid seeping from the interior of a species of pine, just as the gum in a cherry tree or the resin in a pine bursts forth when the liquid is excessively abundant. the exudation is hardened by frost or perhaps by moderate heat, or else by the sea, after a spring tide has carded off the pieces from the islands. at all events, the amber is washed up on the shores of the mainland, being swept along so easily that it seems to hover in the water without settling on the seabed. even our forebears believed it to be a 'sucus,' or exudation, from a tree, and so named it 'sucinum.' that the tree to which it belongs is a species of pine is shown by the fact that it smells like a pine when it is rubbed, and burns like a pine torch, with the same strongly scented smoke, when it is kindled. it is conveyed by the germans mostly into the province of pannonia. from there it was first brought into prominence by the veneti, known to the greeks as the enetoi, who are close neighbours of the pannonians and live around the adriatic. the reason for the story associated with the river po is quite clear, for even today the peasant women of transpadane gaul wear pieces of amber as necklaces, chiefly as an adornment, but also because of its medicinal properties. amber, indeed, is supposed to be a prophylactic against tonsillitis and other affections of the pharynx, for the water near the alps has properties that harm the human throat in various ways. the distance from carnuntum in pannonia to the coasts of germany from which amber is brought to us is some 600 miles, a fact which has been confirmed only recently. there is still living a roman knight who was commissioned to procure amber by julianus when the latter was in charge of a display of gladiators given by the emperor nero. this knight traversed both the trade-route and the coasts, and brought back so plentiful a supply that the nets used for keeping the beasts away from the parapet of the amphitheatre were knotted with pieces of amber. moreover, the arms, biers and all the equipment used on one day, the display on each day being varied, had amber fittings. the heaviest lump that was brought by the knight to rome weighed 13 pounds. it is certain that amber is to be found also in india. archelaus, who was king of cappadocia, relates that it is brought from india in the rough state with pine bark adhering to it, and that it is dressed by being boiled in the fat of a sucking-pig. that amber originates as a liquid exudation is shown by the presence of certain objects, such as ants, gnats and lizards, that are visible inside it. these must certainly have stuck to the fresh sap and have remained trapped inside it as it hardened. 