formerly, as is clear from the very name, sardonyx meant a stone with a layer of carnelian resting on a layer of white, that is, like flesh superimposed on a human fingernail, both parts of the stone being translucent. such is the character of the indian sardonyx according to ismenias, demostratus, zenothemis and sotacus. the last two writers call such other varieties of the stone as are opaque 'blind sardonyx.' those stones that have now usurped the name although they lack all trace of the carncian of the indian stones come from arabia; and the sardonyx has come to be recognized in the guise of several colours, the base being black or else having the colour of azurite, while the 'nail' above is coloured vermilion and is banded with a thick white line, not without a suggestion of purple where the white shades into vermilion. zenothemis writes that the sardonyx was not held in high regard by the indians, though it might be actually large enough to be commonly made into sword hilts. indeed, as is generally known, in india the stone is exposed to view by the mountain streams. he states that in our part of the world, however, the sardonyx was popular from the beginning because it was almost the only gemstone which, when engraved as a signet, did not carry away the sealing wax with it. later we persuaded the indians to share our appreciation of it. there the common folk wear it pierced on a necklace; and this perforation is now a proof of indian origin. the arabian stones are remarkable for their whiteness, the band being brilliant and quite thick: it does not glimmer in the depths of the stone or on its sloping side, but shines on the convex surface of the gem and is, moreover, set off by a lower layer of the deepest black. in the indian stones we find that this layer has the colour of azure or horn. moreover, their white band can have a kind of iridescent shimmer, while the surface is red like the shell of a crawfish. incidentally, if the stones are coloured like honey or wine lees (the latter term in itself implying a defect) they are condemned; and again, also, if the white band is blurred instead of being defined, and similarly if it contains an intrusive patch of some other colour. for no colour must be broken by another in its own layer. there is also an armenian sardonyx which is acceptable in every respect apart from the faintness of its (white) band. 