many people consider the nature of beryls to be similar to, if not identical with, that of emeralds. beryls are produced in india and are rarely found elsewhere. all of them are cut by skilled craftsmen to a smooth hexagonal shape since their colour, which is deadened by the dullness of an unbroken surface, is enhanced by the reflection from the facets. if they are cut in any other way they lack brilliance. the most highly esteemed beryls are those that reproduce the pure green of the sea, while next in value are the so-called 'chrysoberyls.' these are slightly paler, but have a vivid colour approaching that of gold. a variety closely akin to these, but still a little paler and by some regarded as a special kind is the so-called 'chrysoprasus.' fourth in order are reckoned the 'hyacinthizontes,' or 'sapphire-blue beryls,' and fifth the so-called 'aeroides,' or 'sky-blue' variety. after these come the 'waxy' and then the 'oily' beryls, that is, beryls coloured like olive oil. finally, there are those that resemble rock-crystal. these beryls generally contain filaments and impurities, and besides are faint in colour; and all these features like are defects. the indians are extraordinarily fond of elongated beryls and claim that they are the only precious stones that are preferably left without a gold setting. consequently, they pierce them and string them on elephants' bristles. they are all agreed that a stone of perfect quality should not be pierced, and in this case they merely enclose the head of the stone in a convex gold cap. they prefer to shape beryls into long prisms rather than into gems simply because length is their most attractive feature. some people are of the opinion that they are formed from the very start as prisms and also that their appearance is improved by perforation, when a white cloudy core is removed and there is, in addition, the reflection from the gold or, in any case, the thickness of the material through which the light must penetrate is reduced. besides those already mentioned, beryls show the same defects as 'smaragdi,' and also spots like whitlows. in our part of the world beryls, it is thought, are sometimes found in the neighbourhood of the black sea. the indians have found a way of counterfeiting various precious stones, and beryls in particulars by staining rock-crystal. 