a green stone that is often translucent is the 'iaspis,' which still preserves the reputation that it enjoyed in the past, even though it now yields to many others. numerous countries produce it. india produces a variety resembling 'smaragdus,' cyprus one that is hard and dull greyish-green in colour, and persia one that is like the blue sky and is therefore called 'aeizusa,' or 'sky-blue.' a similar kind comes from the caspian region. a deep-blue variety is found near the river thermodon in phrygia a purple one, and in cappadocia another that is purplish-blue, sombre and without lustre. from amisos comes a kind similar to the indian, and from chalcedon one that is cloudy. but it is not so important to distinguish countries of origin as excellences. the best stone is that which has a shade of purple, the next has one of rose, and the next again of 'smaragdus.' the greeks have applied epithets to each kind in accordance with its character. the fourth variety is known among them as 'boria,' or 'north-wind iaspis,' because it is like the sky on an autumn morning. this will be identical with the kind that is called 'aerizusa.' there is also the 'terebinthizusa,' or 'turpentine iaspis,' the epithet being inappropriate, in my opinion, because the stone is, as it were, compounded of many gems of the same variety, for it is not only like a sard, but also resembles in its colour a violet. there are just as many kinds that remain to be described, but all are blue to a fault, or else are like rock-crystal or a sebesten plum. consequently the better specimens are set in an open bezel so that they may remain exposed on both faces, with only their edges clasped by the gold. a defect found in them is their weak lustre and failure to shine at a distance, and also specks resembling salt, as well as all the faults that occur in other gemstones. they too can be counterfeited in glass, and the deception becomes obvious when the brightness of a stone is scattered abroad instead of being concentrated within. the remaining varieties are called 'sphragides,' or 'signets,' the common greek name for a gemstone being thus bestowed on these alone because they are excellent for sealing documents. however, all the peoples of the east are said to wear them as amulets. that variety of 'iaspis' which resembles 'smaragdus' is often surrounded in the middle by a slanting white line, and is therefore called 'monogrammos,' or 'single-lined': if there are several such lines the stone is 'polygrammos,' or 'many-lined.' in passing, it gives me pleasure to refute here, as elsewhere, the falsehoods of the magi, who tell us that this stone is helpful to public speakers. there is also an 'iaspis' combined with onyx known as 'iasponyx,' or 'jasper onyx,' a stone that has a cloudy inclusion in it and specks on it that look like snow, and is spangled with red dots. there is also an 'iaspis' that resembles megarian salt and is stained as though with smoke: hence it is called 'capnias,' or 'smoky.' i myself have seen a figure, representing nero in a breastplate, that was made of this stone and was 16 inches high. 