next, we shall assign to another category purple stones or those varieties that deviate from them. here the first rank is held by the amethysts of india, although amethysts are found also in that part of arabia, known as petra, which borders on syria, as well as in lesser armenia, egypt and galatia, while the most imperfect and worthless specimens occur in thasos and cyprus. the name 'amethyst' has been explained by the supposed fact that the brilliant colour of the stone closely approaches that of wine, but stops short of absorbing it and ends in a violet shade. others, again, offer the explanation that the characteristic purple colour contains an element that is not quite bright red, but fades into the colour of wine. however this may be, all amethysts are transparent and are of a handsome violent tint, and all are easy to engrave. the indian amethyst has the perfect shade of tyrian purple at its best, and it is this stone that the dye-factories aspire to emulate. the stone, when examined, sheds a gentle, mellow colour, which does not, like that of the 'carbunculus,' dazzle the eye. a second kind of amethyst deviates towards the sapphire. its colour is known to the indians as 'soeos,' and the variety of gem as 'soeondios.' a fainter variety of the same stone is called 'sapenos' and also, in the districts adjacent to arabia, 'pharanitis' after the name of a tribe. a fourth kind has the colour of red wine, while a fifth degenerates nearly into rock-crystal, since its purple fades away towards colourlessness. this is the least valuable kind, since a fine stone should, when held up to the light, display in its purple colour a rosy tint shining forth gently as though from a 'carbuneulus.' some people prefer to call such stones 'paederotes,' or 'favourites,' others 'anterotes,' or 'love requited,' and many 'eyelid of venus.' the magi falsely claim that the amethyst prevents drunkenness, and that it is this property that has given it its name. moreover, they say that, if amethysts are inscribed with the names of the sun and moon and are worn hanging from the neck along with baboons' hairs and swallows' feathers, they are a protection against spells. again, they assert that, however they are used, amethysts will assist people who are about to approach a king as suppliants, and that they keep off hail and locusts if they are used in conjunction with an incantation which they prescribe. moreover, they have made similar claims on behalf of the 'smaragdus,' provided that it is engraved with an eagle or a scarab beetle. i can only suppose that in committing these statements to writing they express a derisive contempt for mankind. 