'cadmitis' is identical with the so-called 'ostracitis,' except that the latter is sometimes surrounded with blue globules. 'callais' is similar to lapis lazuli, except that its colour is lighter, like that of the sea close inshore. 'capnitis,' or 'smoke stone,' is regarded by some as a separate variety, but many people treat it as a smoky 'iaspis,' as i have described it in the appropriate place. the 'stone of cappadocia' occurs there and in phrygia, and is like ivory. the 'callaica' is so called from its colour, which is that of a clouded 'callais,' and it is said that several of these stones are always found joined together. the 'catochitis,' or 'clinging stone,' belongs to corsica and is larger than other precious stones, and more remarkable, if the reports are true, because, if the hand rests on it the stone sticks to it like gum. the 'catoptritis,' or 'mirror-stone,' which occurs in cappadocia, reflects images from its bright colourless surface. the 'cepitis,' also known as 'cepolatitis,' is white, with lines of veins that meet at a single point. the 'ceramitis,' or 'pottery-stone,' has the colour of earthenware. or 'cinaedus stones,' are white, oblong stones found in the brain of the fish so named. they have a remarkable effect if only we can believe the statement that they predict conditions at sea, foretelling mist or calm as the case may be. 'ceritis' reminds us of wax, 'circos' of a hawk, 'corsoides' of grey hair, and 'coralloachates,' or 'coral-agate,' of coral. this has markings like drops of gold. the 'corallis' resembles vermilion, and occurs in india and at syene. the 'erateritis,' or 'strong stone,' has a colour between that of yellow sapphire and of amber, and is very hard. the 'crocallis' reproduces exactly the appearance of the cells of a honeycomb. 'cyitis,' ('pregnant stone') which is found in the neighbourhood of coptos, is white and seems to be pregnant with another stone, the presence of which is in fact perceived by a rattling sound. the 'chalcophonos,' or 'brazen-voiced stone,' which is black, rings like bronze when it is dashed against anything; and actors of tragedies are urged to wear it. as to 'chelidoniae,' or 'swallow-stones,' there are two varieties, both of which are swallow-coloured with purple on one side, but in one variety the purple is interspersed with black markings. the 'chelonia,' chelon, 'tortoise-stone,' is the eye of the indian tortoise and, according to the false allegations of the magi, is the most miraculous of all stones. for they claim that the stone, if it is placed on the tongue after the mouth has been rinsed with honey, confers powers of prophecy — at full moon or new moon, during the whole of the day; when the moon is waning, before sunrise only; and at other times, from dawn to midday. there are also tortoise-stones which are the eyes of other tortoises and resemble the tortoise-stone previously mentioned; and according to their guidance the magi often pronounce prophetic incantations in order to cause storms to subside. the variety, however, that is sprinkled with gold drops is said by them to generate storms if it is dropped into boiling water with a scarab beetle. the 'chloritis,' or 'greenstone,' which is of a grassy colour, is said by the magi to be found as a congenital growth in the crop of the water-wagtail. they recommend that it should be set in an iron bezel so as to produce certain of their all too familiar miracles. the 'choaspitis,' which is named after the river choaspes, is of a brilliant gold colour mixed with green. the 'chrysolampis,' or 'golden gleam,' which found in ethiopia, is generally pale, but fiery by night. the 'chrysopis,' or 'golden face,' looks just like gold. the 'cetionis' is found in aeolis at atarneus, now a village, but once a town. it is a transparent stone of many colours. the hue is sometimes that of glass, sometimes of rock-crystal and sometimes of 'iaspis,' but even the stones with flaws in them have so brilliant a lustre that they reflect an image as if they were mirrors. 