the agate was once held in high esteem, but now enjoys none. it was first discovered in sicily near the river of the same name, but was later found in many countries. its size can be exceptional, and its varieties are very numerous. the descriptive terms applied to it vary accordingly. for example, it is given names like 'jasper-agate,' 'wax-agate,' 'emerald-agate,' 'blood-agate,' 'white agate,' 'tree-agate' (which is distinguished by marks resembling small trees), 'anti-agate' (which, when burnt, smells like myrrh) and 'coral-agate,' which is sprinkled with golden particles like those of lapis lazuli and is a variety that is very plentiful in crete. another name for it is 'sacred agate,' since it is thought to counteract the bites of spiders and scorpions. this i would in any ease believe to be true of the sicilian stones, since the venom of scorpions is destroyed by a mere hint of a breeze from that province. the agates found in india are also effective in this way and have other very remarkable qualifies besides. for they exhibit the likenesses of rivers, woods and draught-animals; and from them also are made dishes, statuettes, horse-trappings and small mortars for the use of pharmacists, for merely to look at them is good for the eyes. moreover, if placed in the mouth, they allay thirst. the phrygian agates contain no green, while those found at egyptian thebes lack red and white veins, but these again are effective against scorpions. those of cyprus are similarly esteemed. some people warmly approve of the transparent glassy portions of these last stones. agates are found too in trachis near mount oita, on parnassus, in lesbos, in messenia (where they look like flowers on a field-path) and in rhodes. other differences among agates arc found in the writings of the magi. stones are found that resemble a lion's skin, and these, they claim, are effective against scorpions. but in persia, according to them, the fumes from these stones, when they are burnt, avert storms and waterspouts and stop the flow of rivers, the test of a genuine stone being that it should cool the water when placed in a cauldron that is on the boil. but they insist that, if the stones are to do good, they should be tied to hairs from a lion's mane. incidentally, when attached to hairs from a hyena's mane, they avert discord in the household. according to the magi, there is an agate of one single colour that makes athletes invincible. the method of testing such a stone is to throw it into a pot full of oil with various pigments: when it has been heated for no more than two hours it should have reduced all the pigments to a single shade of vermilion. 