'alabastritis,' which is found at alabastrum in egypt and at damascus in syria, is a white stone interspersed with various colours. when burnt with rock salt and pounded, it is said to alleviate bad breath caused by the mouth and teeth. 'alectoriae,' or 'cock stones,' is the name given to stones found in the gizzards of cocks. in appearance they are like rock-crystal, and in size like beans; and it is claimed that milo of croton owes to his use of these stones his reputation as one who was never worsted in a contest. the 'androdamas,' or 'man tamer,' has a silvery glint, like 'adamas,' and always resembles small cubes. the magi suppose that its name has been applied to it in virtue of the fact that it subdues violence and hot temper in men. whether the 'argyrodamas,' or 'silver tamer,' is the same, or a different, stone, is not made clear by our authorities. 'antipathes,' or the 'contrary stone,' is black and opaque. its genuineness is tested by boiling it in milk, to which it gives the appearance of myrrh. one might perhaps be entitled to expect something prodigious of this stone; for there are many instances of 'antipathetic' substances, and yet it has been granted exclusive possession of the name. the magi claim that it helps to counteract witchcraft. the arabian stone closely resembles ivory, and would pass for it if its hardness did not forbid this. according to the magi, it helps its possessors when they have pains in their sinews. the 'aromatitis,' or 'aromatic stone,' is also found in arabia, but likewise in egypt near philae. it is always stony and, since it has the colour and scent of myrrh, it is much used by queens. 'asbestos,' which is found in the mountains of arcadia, has the colour of iron. 'aspisatis,' according to democritus, occurs in arabia and is of a fiery red colour. he recommends that sufferers from an enlarged spleen should wear it as an amulet with camel dung. however that may be, he states that it is found in the nests of arabian birds, and that another stone bearing the same name and found in arabia on cape leucopetra has a darting silvery lustre and is effective in counteracting attacks of wild distraction. the atizoe, he writes, is found in india and on mount acidane in persis. he describes it as shining brightly like silver, as being just over two inches in length with the shape of a lentil and an agreeable scent, and as being indispensable for the magi at the installation of a king. the 'augitis' is supposed by many to be identical with the 'callaina.' 'amphidanes' is the stone otherwise known as 'chrysocolla.' it occurs in the region of india where gold is dug up by ants. the stone is found actually in the gold, being similar to gold and having the shape of a cube. its nature is positively stated to be the same as that of the magnet, except that, according to tradition, it also causes gold to increase. the 'aphrodisiac' stone is red mixed with white. as for the 'apsyetos,' or 'uncooled stone,' it retains its warmth for seven days if it is thoroughly heated in a fire, and is black, heavy and marked with red veins. it is thought to counteract cold. by the 'egyptilla,' or 'little egyptian stone,' iaechus understands a stone in which the white layer is traversed by bands of carnelian and black, but the term is commonly applied where there is a black ground and an upper layer of blue. it is named after the country where it is found. 