for now that i have completed my survey of nature's works, it is right that i should make a critical assessment of her products, as well of the lands that produce them. this, then, i declare: in the whole world, wherever the vault of heaven turns, there is no land so well adorned with all that wins nature's crown as italy, the ruler and second mother of the world, with her men and women, her generals and soldiers, her slaves, her pre-eminence in arts and crafts, her wealth of brilliant talent, and, again, her geographical position and her healthy, temperate climate, the easy access which she offers to all other peoples, her shores with their many harbours, and the kindly winds that blow upon her. all these benefits accrue to her from her situation — for the land juts out in the direction that is most advantageous, midway between the east and the west — and from her abundant supply of water, her healthy forests, her mountains with their passes, her harmless wild creatures, her fertile soil and her rich pastures. nowhere are the things that man is entitled to expect more excellent — crops, wine, olive oil, wool, flax, cloth and young cattle. even the native breed of homes is preferred to any other on the training-ground. in ores, whether of gold, silver, copper or iron, no country surpassed her so long as it was lawful to work them. now she keeps them within her womb, and all her bounty lies in the many different liquors and the diverse savours of crops and fruits that she lavishes upon us. next to italy, if we leave aside the fabulous marvels of india, i would place spain, or at least the districts where spain is bordered by the sea. for although the country is partly rough desert, yet all its productive regions are rich in crops, oil, wine, horses and every kind of ore. so far, gaul is spain's equal. but it is spain's deserts that give her the advantage; for here we find esparto grass, selenite and even luxury — in the form of pigments; here is a place where there is an incentive to toil, where slaves can be schooled, where men's bodies are hard and their hearts passionately eager. 