a cause contrary to the one mentioned is responsible for creating rock-crystal, for this is hardened by excessively intense freezing. at any rate, it is found only in places where the winter snows freeze most thoroughly; and that it is a kind of ice is certain: the greeks have named it accordingly. rock-crystal also comes to us from the east, for that of india is preferred to any other. it is found also in asia minor, where a very poor variety occurs around alabanda and orthosia and in the neighbouring districts, and likewise in cyprus: in europe excellent rock-crystal occurs in the ranges of the alps. juba assures us that it is to be found also on an island called necron, or island of the dead, in the red sea facing arabia, as well as on the neighbouring one which produces peridot: here, according to him, a piece measuring a cubit in length was dug up by ptolemy's officer pythagoras. cornelius bocchus mentions, furthermore, that rock-crystal of quite exceptional weight was found in portugal, in the ammacensian mountains, when wells were being sunk to water-level. the surprising remark is made by xenocrates of ephesus that in asia minor and cyprus rock-crystal is turned up by the plough, for previously it was not thought to occur in soil, but only amidst rocks. a more plausible statement made by the same xenocrates is that it is also often carried down by torrents. sudines maintains that it occurs only in places that face south. what is certain is that it is not found in well-watered localities, however cold the district may be, even if it is one where the rivers freeze down to the bed. the inevitable conclusion is that rock-crystal is formed of moisture from the sky falling as pure snow. for this reason, it cannot stand heat and is rejected except as a receptacle for cold drinks. why it is formed with hexagonal faces cannot be readily explained; and any explanation is complicated by the fact that, on the one hand, its terminal points are not symmetrical and that, on the other, its faces are so perfectly smooth that no craftsmanship could achieve the same effect. 