nations situate around the hyrcanian sea: lying to the east of the caspii is the region known as apavortene, in which there is a place noted for its singular fertility, called dareium. we then come to the nations of the tapyri, the anariaci, the staures, and the hyrcani, past whose shores and beyond the river sideris the caspian begins to take the name of the 'hyrcanian' sea: on this side of that stream are also the rivers maxeras and strato<: caucasian chain. next comes the district of margiane, so remarkable for its sunny climate. it is the only spot in all these regions that produces the vine, being shut in on every side by verdant and refreshing hills. this district is fifteen hundred stadia in circumference, but is rendered remarkably difficult of access by sandy deserts, which extend a distance of one hundred and twenty miles: it lies opposite to the country of parthia, and in it alexander founded the city of alexandria. this place having been destroyed by the barbarians, antiochus, the son of seleucus, rebuilt it on the same site as a syrian city. for, seeing that it was watered by the margus, which passes through it, and is afterwards divided into a number of streams for the irrigation of the district of zothale, he restored it, but preferred giving it the name of antiochia. the circumference of this city is seventy stadia: it was to this place that orodes conducted such of the romans as had survived the defeat of crassus. from the mountain heights of this district, along the range of caucasus, the savage race of the mardi, a free people, extends as far as the bactri. below the district inhabited by them, we find the nations of the orciani, the commori, the berdrigae, the harmatotropi, the citomarae, the comani, the marucaei, and the mandruani. the rivers here are the mandrus and the chindrus. beyond the nations already mentioned, are the chorasmii, the candari, the attasini, the paricani, the sarangae, the marotiani, the aorsi, the gaeli, by the greek writers called cadusii, the matiani, the city of heraclea, which was founded by alexander, but was afterwards destroyed, and rebuilt by antiochus, and by him called achais; the derbices also, through the middle of whose territory the river oxus runs, after rising in lake oxus, the syrmatae, the oxydracae, the heniochi, the bateni, the saraparae, and the bactri, whose chief city is zariaspe, which afterwards received the name of bactra, from the river there. this last nation lies at the back of mount paropanisus, over against the sources of the river indus, and is bounded by the river ochus. beyond it are the sogdiani, the town of panda, and, at the very extremity of their territory, alexandria, founded by alexander the great. at this spot are the altars which were raised by hercules and father liber, as also by cyrus, semiramis, and alexander; for the expeditions of all these conquerors stopped short at this region, bounded as it is by the river jaxartes, by the scythians known as the silis, and by alexander and his officers supposed to have been the tanais. this river was crossed by demodamas, a general of kings seleucus and antiochus, and whose account more particularly we have here followed. he also consecrated certain altars here to apollo didymaeus.  