the nations of scythia and the countries on the eastern ocean. beyond this river are the peoples of scythia. the persians have called them by the general name of sacae, which properly belongs to only the nearest nation of them. the more ancient writers give them the name of aramii. the scythians themselves give the name of "chorsari" to the persians, and they call mount caucasus graucasis, which means "white with snow." the multitude of these scythian nations is quite innumerable: in their life and habits they much resemble the people of parthia. the tribes among them that are better known are the sacae, the massagetae, the dahae, the essedones, the ariacae, the rhymmici, the paesici, the amardi, the histi, the edones, the came, the camacae, the euchatae, the cotieri, the anthusiani, the psacae, the arimaspi, the antacati, the chroasai, and the oetei; among them the napaei are said to have been destroyed by the palaei. the rivers in their country that are the best known, are the mandragaeus and the carpasus. indeed upon no subject that i know of are there greater discrepancies among writers, from the circumstance, i suppose, of these nations being so extremely numerous, and of such migratory habits. alexander the great has left it stated that the water of this sea is fresh, and m. varro informs us, that some of it, of a similar character, was brought to pompey, when holding the chief command in the mithridatic war in its vicinity; the salt, no doubt, being overpowered by the volume of water discharged by the rivers which flow into it. he adds also, that under the direction of pompey, it was ascertained that it is seven days' journey from india to the river icarus, in the country of the bactri, which discharges itself into the oxus, and that the merchandize of india being conveyed from it through the caspian sea into the cyrus, may be brought by land to phasis in pontus, in five days at most. there are numerous islands throughout the whole of the caspian sea: the only one that is well known is that of tazata. 