the mountain races between the indus and the jomanes are the cesi, the cetriboni, who dwell in the woods, and after them the megallae, whose king possesses five hundred elephants, and an army of horse and foot, the numbers of which are unknown; then the chrysei, the parasangae, and the asmagi, whose territory is infested by wild tigers; these people keep in arms thirty thousand foot, three hundred elephants, and eight hundred horse. they are bounded by the river indus, and encircled by a range of mountains and deserts for a distance of six hundred and twenty-five miles. below these deserts are the dari and the surve, and then deserts again for one hundred and eighty-seven miles, sands in general encircling these spots just as islands are surrounded by the sea. below these deserts, again, are the maltecorae, the singae, the marohae, the rarungae, and the morontes. these last peoples, who possess the mountains throughout the whole range of country as far as the shores of the ocean, are free, and independent of all kings, and hold numerous cities upon the declivities of the mountains. after them come the nareae, who are bounded by capitalia, the most lofty of all the indian peaks: the inhabitants who dwell on the other side of it have extensive mines of gold and silver. after these again are the oratae, whose king possesses only ten elephants, but a large army of foot; next come the suarataratae, who live under the rule of a king as well, but breed no elephants, as they depend solely on their horse and foot; then the odonbeores, the arabastree, and the horacae, which last inhabit a fine city fortified by trenches cut in the marshes. it is quite impossible to approach the city, except by the bridge, as the water in the trenches is full of crocodiles, an animal most insatiate for human flesh. there is another city also in their territory, which has been greatly extolled, automula by name, situate on the sea-shore, a famous mart, lying at the point of confluence of five rivers: their king possesses sixteen hundred elephants, one hundred and fifty thousand foot, and five thousand horse. the king of the charmae is a less opulent potentate; he has only sixty elephants and some small remains of his former strength. after these we come to the nation of the pandae, the only one throughout all india which is ruled by women. it is said that hercules had but one child of the female sex, for which reason she was his especial favourite, and he bestowed upon her the principal one of these kingdoms. the sovereigns who derive their origin from this female, rule over three hundred towns, and have an army of one hundred and fifty thousand foot, and five hundred elephants. after passing through this list of three hundred cities, we come to the darangae, the posingae, the butae, the gogaraei, the umbrae, the nereae, the brancosi, the nobundae, the cocondae, the nesei, the palatitae, the salobriasae, and the olostrae, who reach up to the island of patala, from the extremity of whose shores to the caspian gates it is a distance of nineteen hundred and twenty-five miles. 