from these persons we learned that in taprobane there are five hundred towns, and that there is a harbour that lies facing the south, and adjoining the city of palaesimundus, the most famous city in the isle, the king's place of residence, and containing a population of two hundred thousand. they also informed us that in the interior there is a lake called megisba, three hundred and seventy-five miles in circumference, and containing islands which are fertile, though for pasturage only. in this lake they informed us two rivers take their rise, one of which, called palesimundus, flows into the harbour near the city of that name, by three channels, the narrowest of which is five stadia in width, the largest fifteen; while the other, cydara by name, takes a direction northward, towards the indian coast. we learned also that the nearest point of the indian coast is a promontory known as coliacum, distant from the island four days' sail, and that midway between them lies the island of the sun. they stated also that those seas are of a deep green tint; besides which, there are numerous trees growing at the bottom, so much so, that the rudders of the vessels frequently break off portions of their foliage. they were much astonished at the constellations which are visible to us, the greater bear and the pleiades, as though they had now beheld a new expanse of the heavens; and they declared that in their country the moon can only be seen above the horizon from the eighth to its sixteenth day. they also stated that canopus, a large bright star, gives light to them by night. but what surprised them more than anything, was that the shadow of their bodies was thrown towards our hemisphere and not theirs, and that the sun arose on the left hand and set on the right, and not in the opposite direction. they also informed us that the side of their island which lies opposite to india is ten thousand stadia in length, and runs in a south-easterly direction — that beyond the emodian mountains they look towards the serve, whose acquaintance they had also made in the pursuits of commerce; that the father of rachias had frequently visited their country, and that the serae always came to meet them on their arrival. these people, they said, exceeded the ordinary human height, had flaxen hair, and blue eyes, and made an uncouth sort of noise by way of talking, having no language of their own for the purpose of communicating their thoughts. the rest of their information was of a similar nature to that communicated by our merchants. it was to the effect that the merchandize on sale was left by them upon the opposite bank of a river on their coast, and it was then removed by the natives, if they thought proper to deal on terms of exchange. on no grounds ought luxury with greater reason to be detested by us, than if we only transport our thoughts to these scenes, and then reflect, what are its demands, to what distant spots it sends in order to satisfy them, and for how mean and how unworthy an end! 