taprobane: taprobane, under the name of the "land of the antichthones," was long looked upon as another world: the age and the arms of alexander the great were the first to give satisfactory proof that it is an island. onesicritus, the commander of his fleet, has informed us that the elephants of this island are larger, and better adapted for warfare than those of india; and from megasthenes we learn that it is divided by a river, that the inhabitants have the name of paleogoni, and that their country is more productive of gold and pearls of great size than even india. eratosthenes has also given the dimensions of this island, as being seven thousand stadia in length, and five thousand in breadth: he states also that there are no cities, but villages to the number of seven hundred. it begins at the eastern sea, and lies extended opposite to india, east and west. this island was in former times supposed to be twenty days' sail from the country of the prasii, but in later times, whereas the navigation was formerly confined to vessels constructed of papyrus with the tackle peculiar to the nile, the distance has been estimated at no more than seven days' sail, in reference to the speed which can be attained by vessels of our construction. the sea that lies between the island and the mainland is full of shallows, not more than six paces in depth; but in certain channels it is of such extraordinary depth, that no anchor has ever found a bottom. for this reason it is that the vessels are constructed with prows at either end; so that there may be no necessity for tacking while navigating these channels, which are extremely narrow. the tonnage of these vessels is three thousand amphorae. in traversing their seas, the people of taprobane take no observations of the stars, and indeed the greater bear is not visible to them; but they carry birds out to sea, which they let go from time to time, and so follow their course as they make for the land. they devote only four months in the year to the pursuits of navigation, and are particularly careful not to trust themselves on the sea during the next hundred days after our summer solstice, for in those seas it is at that time the middle of winter. 