passengers generally set sail at midsummer, before the rising of the dog-star, or else immediately after, and in about thirty days arrive at ocelis in arabia, or else at cane, in the region which bears frankincense. there is also a third port of arabia, muza by name; it is not, however, used by persons on their passage to india, as only those touch at it who deal in incense and the perfumes of arabia. more in the interior there is a city; the residence of the king there is called sapphar, and there is another city known by the name of save. to those who are bound for india, ocelis is the best place for embarcation. if the wind, called hippalus, happens to be blowing, it is possible to arrive in forty days at the nearest mart of india, muziris by name. this, however, is not a very desirable place for disembarcation, on account of the pirates which frequent its vicinity, where they occupy a place called nitrias; nor, in fact, is it very rich in articles of merchandize. besides, the road-stead for shipping is a considerable distance from the shore, and the cargoes have to be conveyed in boats, either for loading or discharging. at the moment that i am writing these pages, the name of the king of this place is caelobothras. another port, and a much more convenient one, is that which lies in the territory of the people called neacyndi, barace by name. here king pandion used to reign, dwelling at a considerable distance from the mart in the interior, at a city known as modiera. the district from which pepper is carried down to barace in boats hollowed out of a single tree, is known as cottonara. none of these names of nations, ports, and cities are to be found in any of the former writers, from which circumstance it would appear that the localities have since changed their names. travellers set sail from india on their return to europe, at the beginning of the egyptian month tybis, which is our december, or at all events before the sixth day of the egyptian month mechir, the same as our ides of january: if they do this, they can go and return in the same year. they set sail from india with a south-east wind, and upon entering the red sea, catch the south-west or south. we will now return to our main subject. 