we will now proceed to describe the coast after leaving charax, which was first explored by order of king epiphanes. we first come to the place where the mouth of the euphrates formerly existed, the river salsus, and the promontory of chaldone, from which spot, the sea along the coast, for an extent of fifty miles, bears more the aspect of a series of whirlpools than of ordinary sea; the river achenus, and then a desert tract for a space of one hundred miles, until we come to the island of ichara; the gulf of capeus, on the shores of which dwell the gaulopes and the chateni, and then the gulf of gerra. here we find the city of gerra, five miles in circumference, with towers built of square blocks of salt. fifty miles from the coast, lying in the interior, is the region of attene, and opposite to gerra is the island of tylos, as many miles distant from the shore; it is famous for the vast number of its pearls, and has a town of the same name; in its vicinity there is a smaller island, distant from a promontory on the larger one twelve miles and a half. they say that beyond this large islands may be seen, upon which no one has ever landed: the circumference of the smaller island is one hundred and twelve miles and a half; and it is more than that distance from the persian coast, being accessible by only one narrow channel. we then come to the island of asclie, and the nations of the nocheti, the zurazi, the borgodi, the catharrei, the nomades, and then the river cynos. beyond this, the navigation is impracticable on that side, according to juba, on account of the rocks; and he has omitted all mention of batrasave, a town of the omani, and of the city of omana, which former writers have made out to be a famous port of carmania; as also of homna and attana, towns which at the present day, our merchants say, are by far the most famous ones in the persian sea. passing the river cynos, there is a mountain, juba says, that bears marks of the action of fire; also, the nation of the epimaranitae, then a nation of ichthyophagi, and then a desert island, and the nation of the bathymi. we then come to the eblitaean mountains, the island of omoenus, the port of mochorbe, the islands of etaxalos and inchobrice, and the nation of the cadaei. there are many islands also that have no name, but the better known ones are isura, rhinnea, and another still nearer the shore, upon which there are some stone pillars with an inscription in unknown characters. there are also the port of goboea, the desert islands called bragae, the nation of the thaludaei, the region of dabanegoris, mount orsa, with a harbour, the gulf of duatus, with numerous islands, mount tricoryphos, the region of cardaleon, and the islands called solanades, cachinna, and that of the ichthyophagi. we then find the clari, the shore of mamaion, on which there are gold mines, the region of canauna, the nations of the apitami and the casani, the island of devade, the fountain of coralis, the carphati, the islands of calaeu and amnamethus, and the nation of the darrae. also, the island of chelonitis, numerous islands of ichthyophagi, the deserts of odanda, basa, many islands of the sabaei, the rivers thanar and amnume, the islands of dorice, and the fountains of daulotos and dora. we find also the islands of pteros, labatanis, coboris, and sambrachate, with a town of the same name on the mainland. lying to the south are a great number of islands, the largest of which is camari; also the river musecros, and the port of laupas. we then come to the sabaei, a nation of scenitae, with numerous islands, and the city of acila, which is their mart, and from which persons embark for india. we next come to the region of amithoscutta. damnia, the greater and the lesser mizi, and the drimati. the promontory of the naumachaei, over against carmania, is distant from it fifty miles. a wonderful circumstance is said to have happened here; numenius, who was made governor of mesena by king antiochus, while fighting against the persians, defeated them at sea, and at low water, by land, with an army of cavalry, on the same day; in memory of which event he erected a twofold trophy on the same spot, in honour of jupiter and neptune. 