india and parts of ethiopia especially teem with marvels. the biggest animals grow in india: for instance indian dogs are bigger than any others. indeed the trees are said to be so lofty that it is not possible to shoot an arrow over them, and [the richness of the soil, temperate climate and abundance of springs bring it about] that, if one is willing to believe it, squadrons of cavalry are able to shelter beneath a single fig-tree; while it is said that reeds are of such height that sometimes a single section between two knots will make a canoe that will carry three people. it is known that many of the inhabitants are more than seven feet six inches high, never spit, do not suffer from headache or toothache or pain in the eyes, and very rarely have a pain in any other part of the body — so hardy are they made by the temperate heat of the sun; and that the sages of their race, whom they call gymnosophists, stay standing from sunrise to sunset, gazing at the sun with eyes unmoving, and continue all day long standing first on one foot and then on the other in the glowing sand. megasthenes states that on the mountain named nulus there are people with their feet turned backwards and with eight toes on each foot, while on many of the mountains there is a tribe of human beings with dogs' heads, who wear a covering of wild beasts' skins, whose speech is a bark and who live on the produce of hunting and fowling, for which they use their nails as weapons; he says that they numbered more than 120,000 when he published his work. ctesias writes that also among a certain race of india the women bear children only once in their lifetime, and the children begin to turn grey directly after birth; he also describes a tribe of men called the monocolia who have only one leg, and who move in jumps with surprising speed; the same are called the umbrella-foot tribe, because in the hotter weather they lie on their backs on the ground and protect themselves with the shadow of their feet; and that they are not far away from the cave-dwellers; and again westward from these there are some people without necks, having their eyes in their shoulders. there are also satyrs [doubtless a kind of monkey] in the mountains in the east of india (it is called the district of the catarcludi); this is an extremely swift animal, sometimes going on all fours and sometimes standing upright as they run, like human beings; because of their speed only the old ones or the sick are caught. tauron gives the name of choromandae to a forest tribe that has no speech but a horrible scream, hairy bodies, keen grey eyes and the teeth of a dog. eudoxus says that in the south of india men have feet eighteen inches long and the women such small feet that they are called sparrow-feet. megasthenes tells of a race among the nomads of india that has only holes in the place of nostrils, like snakes, and bandy-legged; they are called the sciritae. at the extreme boundary of india to the east, near the source of the ganges, he puts the astomi tribe, that has no mouth and a body hairy all over; they dress in cotton-wool and live only on the air they breathe and the scent they inhale through their nostrils; they have no food or drink except the different odours of the roots and flowers and wild apples, which they carry with them on their longer journeys so as not to lack a supply of scent; he says they can easily be killed by a rather stronger odour than usual. beyond these in the most outlying mountain region we are told of the three-span men and pygmies, who do not exceed three spans, i.e. twenty-seven inches, in height; the climate is healthy and always spring-like, as it is protected on the north by a range of mountains; this tribe homer has also recorded as being beset by cranes. it is reported that in springtime their entire band, mounted on the backs of rams and she-goats and armed with arrows, goes in a body down to the sea and eats the cranes eggs and chickens, and that this outing occupies three months; and that otherwise they could not protect themselves against the flocks of cranes that would grow up; and that their houses are made of mud and feathers and eggshells. aristotle says that the pygmies live in caves, but in the rest of his statement about them he agrees with the other authorities. the indian race of cyrni according to isigonus live to 140; and he holds that the same is true of the long-lived ethiopians, the chinese and the inhabitants of mount athos — in the last case because of their diet of snakes' flesh, which causes their head and clothes to be free from creatures harmful to the body. onesicritus says that in the parts of india where there are no shadows there are men five cubits and two spans a high, and people live a hundred and thirty years, and do not grow old but die middle-aged. crates of pergamum tells of indians who exceed a hundred years, whom he calls gymnetae, though many call them long-livers. ctesias says that a tribe among them called the pandae, dwelling in the mountain valleys, live two hundred years, and have white hair in their youth that grows black in old age; whereas others do not exceed forty years, this tribe adjoining the long-livers, whose women bear children only once. agatharchides records this as well, and also that they live on locusts, and are very swift-footed. clitarchus gave them the name of mandi; and megasthenes also assigns them three hundred villages, and says that the women bear children at the age of seven and old age comes at forty. artemidorus says that on the island of ceylon the people live very long lives without any loss of bodily activity. duris says that some indians have union with wild animals and the offspring is of mixed race and half animal; that among the calingi, a tribe of the same part of india, women conceive at the age of five and do not live more than eight years, and that in another part men are born with a hairy tail and extremely swift, while others are entirely covered by their ears. 