dogs alone know their master, and also recognize a sudden arrival as a stranger; they alone recognize their own names, and the voice of a member of the household; they remember the way to places however distant, and no creature save man has a longer memory. their onset and rage can be mollified by a person sitting down on the ground. experience daily discovers very many other qualities in these animals, but it is in hunting that their skill and sagacity is most outstanding. a hound traces and follows footprints, dragging by its leash the tracker that accompanies it towards his quarry; and on sighting it how silent and secret but how significant an indication is given first by the tail and then by the muzzle consequently even when they are exhausted with old age and blind and weak, men wry them in their arms sniffing at the breezes scents and pointing their muzzles towards indians want hounds to be sired by tigers, the breeding season they tie up bitches in the for this purpose. they think that the first second litters are too fierce and they only rear the third one. similarly the gauls breed hounds wolves; each of their packs has one of the as leader and guide; the pack accompanies this leader in the hunt and pays it obedience; for dogs actually exercise authority among themselves. it is known that the dogs by the nile lap up water from the river as they run, so as not to give the greed of the crocodiles its chance. when alexander the great was on his way to india, the king of albania had presented him with one dog of unusually large size; alexander was delighted by its appearance, and gave orders for bears and then boars and finally hinds to be let slip — the hound lying contemptuously motionless. this slackness on the part of so vast an animal annoyed the generous spirit of the emperor, who ordered it to be destroyed. report carried news of this to the king; and accordingly sending a second hound he added a message that alexander should not desire to test it on small game but on a lion or an elephant; he had only possessed two of the breed and if this one was destroyed there would be none left. alexander did not put off the trial, and forthwith saw a lion crushed. afterwards he ordered an elephant to be brought in, and no other show ever gave him more delight: for the dog's hair bristled all over his body and it first gave a vast thunderous bark, then kept leaping up and rearing against the creature's limbs on this side and that, in scientific combat, attacking and retiring at the most necessary points, until the elephant turning round and round in an unceasing whirl was brought to the ground with an earth-shaking crash. 